---
title: 2017 In Review
author: Quinlan Pfiffer
bg-image: /static/img/13653449_1169579606432286_6561406343698300739_o.jpg
bg-img-src: https://www.facebook.com/whatthefestival/photos/t.579862546/1169579606432286/?type=3&theater
tags: year-end-review
---

Accomplishments
===============

* State champion in track racing, in category 4/5. I'll be a 3 this year, so
  that'll be the end of winning for a while.
* Made it to four countries other than my own (Canada, Iceland, China and
  England)
* Sailed, again.
* More camping, multiple times
* Raced cross-crusade, twice
* I bought a cheap car and started tearing it apart/putting it back together
* I read a few great books this year, Accelerando and Glasshouse were probably
  my favorites. Void Star was amazing as well, though.

Side-Projects
=============

Definitely no side projects this year.

Regrets
=======

* Didn't finish the journal task, but I got close.
* Didn't squat 315, could've focused more on that.
* A lot of time wasted working a job I'm not excited about.

Goals from Last Year
====================
* <span class="fail">Failed</span>Side-business/passive income. Making things or something.
* <span class="suc">Succeeded</span>Get bodyweight up to at least 165 (Did this
  twice, both pre and post food-poisoning.)
* <span class="unsure">Unsure</span>Improve Vertical Leap
* <span class="fail">Failed</span>Squat 315 lbs.
* <span class="suc">Succeeded</span>Race more Track (I did this a lot.)
* <span class="unsure">Unsure</span>Read more Books
* <span class="fail">Failed</span>Go on more bike adventures (short 2-3 day trips or longer trips)
* <span class="fail">Ride 10k miles.</span>Made it like 2700 miles or so, not
  really close.
* <span class="fail">Failed</span>Get in trouble on the packraft (Still haven't built it)
* <span class="unsure">Unsure</span>Turn the MR2 into an adventure machine (Kind
  of moot, with the 2nd one)
* <span class="suc">Succeeded</span>Visit China/Taiwan/Hong Kong again (Went to Beijing)
* <span class="fail">Failed</span>__Journal Every Day__ (I tried, but ended up
  missing/half-assing a few days)

Goals for 2017
==============

Reading through my journals from this year it's obvious that there are things in
my behavior that I need to be more mindful of. It's easy to underestimate how
difficult winters can be in Portland, and what I wrote down and the days that
were burned due to malaise kind of illustrate my denial, in retrospect. There
are so many days wasted being listless, when all it takes is to leave, and an
outside perspective. I really inted this year to be better to myself and those
around me.

* Squat 300+ Lbs.
* Bivvy at least once a month
* Get the second MR2 up and running
* Journal Every Day
* Read a book a month
* Attend a rally/rallycross event

Random Stats
============
* Longest ride (non-stop): 40 miles during the gorge gravel grinder.
* Longest ride (stop-to-stop): Probably the Ladd's 500 laps I did in April 2017.
* Fastest 200m Sprint: 13.1
* Weight: ~168lbs
* Books read:
* Commits: 
* Longest Commit Streak: 
* Heaviest deadlift: 365lbs
* Heaviest squat: 275 (305 assisted in Beijing, but that doesnt count)
* Heaviest bench: 185
* Journal entries: ~350
