---
title: Oregon Outback 2018
author: Quinlan Pfiffer
bg-image: ../static/img/outback_2018.jpg
tags: outside, checklist
---

The [Oregon Outback](http://www.bikepacking.com/routes/oregon-outback/) is something
I've got kind of a history with. I tried it backward back in 2016, during
winter, and failed it. There was a lot of snow, and dirt-touring in the winter
is kind of brutal. In addition, when you go backwards you end up gaining a bunch
of elevation instead of losing it, over the course of the ride. Add post-holing
through snow in eastern Oregon and you end up with a recipe for low morale.

# Preparation

This was all stuff I wrote before the outback happened. Mostly a gear list, what
to bring, make ore repair, that kind of thing.

* Look for PVC cage things (are any left?)
* Change grips
* Nix Handlebar bag? Deadweight.
* Add water bottle cages to fork
* Actually fix framebag
* Tubeless?

## When

September 4th - 9th, 2018

Train departs PDX at 2:50PM and (hopefully) gets to klamath falls by 9:50PM. The
ideal would be to get in and slam out 20-30 miles before sleeping on the trail
somewhere.

Ride the outback.

Ride to [the Dalles](https://ridewithgps.com/routes/5005647) and take the
greyhound back to PDX.

## Gear Checklist

* Karate Monkey, ofc
* Framebag
    * Can opener
    * Toolkit
        * Pliers
        * Multitool
        * Tire Levers
        * Spare Chain Links
        * Pump
        * Spare Tube
        * Zipties
    * Food
    * Baby wipes/aquaphor
    * Filter
    * Spot tracker

* Saddle Bag
    * Bivvy
    * Cooking Stuff
        * Stove
        * Bowl
        * Spork
        * Lighter

* Handlebars
    * Bike Lights
        * Front and rear
    * Tent Poles
    * Quick access bag
        * Toothbrush/toothpaste
        * Ibuprofen
        * Salt Tablets
        * Water filter
        * Skratch Packets
        * Spot tracker
        * Knife
        * Headlamp
        * USB Battery
            * iPhone cable
            * Regular USB Cable
        * Solar Panel
        * Kindle
        * Aquaphor
    * Sleeping Bag

* Gastank
    * Phone
    * Wallet
    * Keys

* Unbagged/Misc.
    * Cycling GPS Thing
    * Two Water Bottles
    * Water Bladder
    * Clothing
        * Two Pairs Socks
        * Shirt
        * Shorts
        * Helmet
        * Sunglasses
