---
title: Kyrgyzstan 2021 Part 2
author: Quinlan Pfiffer
tags: outside, adventure, bikepacking
bg-image: /static/img/kyrgyzstan_2021/header2.jpg
---

[Start with part 1, over here.](/posts/2021-07-01-Kyrgyzstan_2021.html)

# Day 5

<img src="/static/img/kyrgyzstan_2021/day_5_1.jpg"></img>

I think day five is really when we reached peak injury but also kind of found
our groove: I was starting to get tendonitis in both of my achilles tendons, the
shitty grips I had purchased were really starting to hurt my hands, and Megan's
lower lip had swollen up like a balloon due to bad sunburn. The high elevation
sun was pretty brutal. We were better about sunscreen/sleeves/protection after
that. On the flipside, I felt like we were really in it and had adapted to the daily
rhythm of food, ride, camp.

After a cold night of sleep, the sun hit us and we were able to make it out of
camp after lingering for just a little bit. We had a nice, morning-chill ride to
At-Bashy, maybe 10 miles or so. I went without socks and it felt nice. After
airing down the tires just a little bit, even the washboard didn't phase me. It
was a very pleasant morning.

In At-Bashy we took our time and just ate a bunch of things. We had our first <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Manti_(food)">Manti</a>,
which were full of fat and amazing, then some more at a small restaurant, and I
was cornered by a random group of locals and had some more
[Kumis](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kumis) from a bucket in a shipping
container. The rest of the morning was kind of giggly.

The day was mostly spent slogging in the sun uphill. We were on dirt for a good
few hours, before skipping the turn to [Tash Rabat](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tash_Rabat)
and just getting on the highway. It was the weirdest, longest climb of my life:
One perfectly straight, uphill road forever. I was lost in thought (and
Neuromancer) when I looked
up and Megan was gone, looking around I saw that she'd gone to what appeared to
be a closed, log-cabin cafe.

A woman came out and offered us some coke, which turned into food, which was
very nice. We had a good unexpected time there. The hostess was very friendly
and we were able to chat just a little bit and enjoy some bread, dumpling-like
things full of mutton and oil, and some coca-cola. It was very welcome.

<img src="/static/img/kyrgyzstan_2021/day_5_2.jpg"></img>

From there we continued up, again, until we finally crested the hill and found
our turn-off up into the pass we were supposed to go to. We randomly ran into a
[Silk Road Mountain Race](https://www.silkroadmountainrace.cc/) driving back
from somehwere, but we didn't get to chat much. We continued on.

A stream we were depending on wasn't flowing, so we turned around and dropped
2000 feet back to the valley floor for water and camped. The campsite was very
pretty but smelled kind of like cow poop- common around here but funny. We'd get
wafts of it all night through the tent wall. Dinner was some poorly cooked egg
noodles and lentils- any food is great when you're super hungry but it wasn't
our best culinary moment.

<img src="/static/img/kyrgyzstan_2021/day_5_3.jpg"></img>

We ended up doing sixty miles, a few of which we'd have to repeat the following
morning.

# Day 6

<img src="/static/img/kyrgyzstan_2021/day_6_1.jpg"></img>

Day 6 was a trial- it was cold in the night so M didn't sleep well in her quilt
and I didn't fare that much better in my battered old sleeping bag. There was
some frost outside when we woke up. I'd forgotten to put the fuel canister in my
sleeping bag, so I had to stick it in my shirt for thirty minutes or so in the
morning just to get it hot enough to work. It took us about two hours to leave
camp, pretty average for us.

It took us about 45 minutes to get back to our highpoint from the previous day,
which was nice. From there we should have just turned around again and gotten on
the road that goes through the pass, because the route traverses up game trails
to basically the same point. It took us forever. Most of the time we couldn't
ride because the singletrack was too deep and narrow ("It's like bumper cars" -
M) or there was just no track at all. Lots of hike-a-bike. At least the view
from the top was pretty.

It wasn't easy to get back to the road, either: We had to drop down into a
ravine and then push our bikes up the other side. Very steep cow trails. I
wanted to do the whole adventure for some reason but M had suggested the road.
We should've done the road: The view was the same and you could actually ride.
Ain't no brutality like meaningless brutality.

<img src="/static/img/kyrgyzstan_2021/day_6_2.jpg"></img>

After some riding around on the valley floor through some sandstone formations
and looking at the increasingly ugly weather behind us, we began the long climb
up MELS pass. The rain hit us pretty much as it was getting hard. It was an
amazing climb: We'd turn a corner thinking we were near the top and we would
just see more switchbacks climbing up the pass at increasing angles. It was
amazing. I called a particularly rough section the "mindbender".

The sun poked out just as we got to the top, in time for some pictures, before
coming right back. We had a very amazing descent through granite formations,
past a few yurts, and then dropped into the best views on the trip: Forever in
all directions, an amazing gorge and rock formations. It was like we'd dropped
off the edge of the earth into some otherworldly place. Pictures don't do it
justice but every new turn was breathtaking.

<img src="/static/img/kyrgyzstan_2021/day_6_3.jpg"></img>

After dropping 5000 feet and stopping to check out a small, ruined graveyard, we
made it to Baetov: My left achilles was rapidly dteriorating so it was nice to
arrive at our destination. We ate at a place named "Big Burger" that didn't have
any burgers, and then found lodging at a guesthouse just named "Desperation". It
was very coldwar era. We managed to top-up on supplies, too, mostly with candy,
peanuts and weird little wafers.

We felt lucky to be in a guesthouse that night, becase a thunderstorm rolled in
just as it was getting dark. They also made us a second dinner, which was great.

# Day 7

<img src="/static/img/kyrgyzstan_2021/day_7_1.jpg"></img>

We slept pretty well in the desperation guesthouse. They were accomodating and
made breakfast for us at around 6:30AM and we were off into the sun after
packing our groceries. Mine was mostly peanuts. It was an easy 20 miles where we
stopped at a cute little place called the Nomad's Valley Shop- they were in the
middle of renovating but opened up for us and we had lunch. We even had a good
spot to charge, and real coffee at the end. It was magical.

The kids outside kept comparing our tire sizes.

<img src="/static/img/kyrgyzstan_2021/day_7_2.jpg"></img>

We headed up a gravel road later and it just kept going straight up- another
pass. We climbed for a bit and then grabbed water just before it got real steep.
A family was there and they kept feeding us berries. They were kind of bitter
and acidic but not bad.

<img src="/static/img/kyrgyzstan_2021/day_7_3.jpg"></img>

It of course rained on us as we climbed the pass, and all-told took us about
seven hours from the Nomad's cafe to the top of the pass. We pressed on as it
got dark and wet and cold towards [Song-kul](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Song_Kol_Lake) where
we stayed at a yurt camp for the night. It was good to be inside and
for another night, and to have some hot food.

<img src="/static/img/kyrgyzstan_2021/day_7_4.jpg"></img>

# Day 8

<!-- Actually day 8 -->
<img src="/static/img/kyrgyzstan_2021/day_7_5.jpg"></img>

I slept extremely well and then we had a great breakfast. Little thin crepes. We
packed up soon after and were headed out, kind of following the west edge of the
lake. The trail was basically just grass, though. Sometimes it was a game trail,
sometimes it was gravel, sometimes nothing. It took a long time to go ~15 miles
or whatever to the next pass.

<img src="/static/img/kyrgyzstan_2021/day_8_1.jpg"></img>

We descended way down from the pass into a small village where we had lunch- it
was very animated and a duo of old men kept trying to talk with us. I'm not
really sure what we said or what they were asking but it was entertaining for all.

<img src="/static/img/kyrgyzstan_2021/day_8_2.jpg"></img>

We did a lot of pedaling on flat dirt roads, with some pavement, getting blasted
by construction trucks the whole time. It was kind of an arduous journey towards
Chaek. We found a random, small restaurant on the side of the road and huddled
in just in time to hide from some thunderstorms that rolled in. It was really nice.

We stayed there almost until dark, then struggled to find a campsite a little
ways down. This was the point in the trip where I started getting chased by
random dogs. We eventually pitched the tent just a little ways off the main
road, behind a small bend. Our first attempt found us at the foot of some small
lake made completely of tar, which was really creepy in the dark, so we just
turned back and found what we could. We did 60+ miles, mostly downhill, which
was great for morale.

<img src="/static/img/kyrgyzstan_2021/day_8_3.jpg"></img>

# Day 9

<img src="/static/img/kyrgyzstan_2021/day_9_1.jpg"></img>

We bailed out of the next-to-the-road campspot and started going uphill,
forever. We basically wouldn't stop going uphill until days later when we
crested Karakol Pass. The morning was spent along a river in the sun, for miles
and miles and miles until we eventually arrived at Kysyl-oi, a small touristy
town. We had lunch at Katya's guesthouse, accompanied by some conversation with
a Kyrgyz local studying english. It was nice, but expensive for the area. The
Kekemeren river that we had been next to all day looked like a supreme amount of
fun and I'd love to come back to boat it.

<img src="/static/img/kyrgyzstan_2021/day_9_2.jpg"></img>

We climbed some more, in the sun and out of it, until we reached another small
town (Kojomkul) and our last resupply. We lucked out and got the shop _just_ before they
closed, and managed to stock up with chips and other carbage. We packed
everything up and rolled north, where we cut east at the river and watched the
rain hit us.

> "We are in the valley, I think it will rain all day long" - A random local on
> a fishing trip passing us by.

We continued on for a while but were eventually completely soaked and dead, and
decided to pitch camp. Everything was very wet and morale was pretty low. We
huddled in the tent waiting for the rain to pass, which it
never really did. We didn't even eat dinner: Just some bread that Megan bought
and some expired cheese that only I touched.

# Day 10

<img src="/static/img/kyrgyzstan_2021/day_10_1.jpg"></img>

On day 10, we stayed in the tent. For a long time. We snoozed and cooked and
talked and tried to decide what to do: If we were frozen going over either of
the two remaining mountain passes, we risked being in a really bad spot. If we
didn't get back to Bishkek in time, we wouldn't be able to A) get a PCR test to
get on our flight or B) get on our flight at all. It was a worried couple hours.

We hit a gap in the weather, and coupled with our feet in plastic bags and
"battle ponchoes" that I'd made us out of an emergency blanket, we did really
well. It rained on us (already wet) for a little bit but then the sun came out
and we were able to dry out quite a bit. We felt very lucky.

<img src="/static/img/kyrgyzstan_2021/day_10_2.jpg"></img>

We made okay progress for starting late in the day and made camp as soon as more
rain threatened- a five minute shower sent us scurrying. Luckily we had a good
campspot and it was still early enough to enjoy the evening so we weren't too
mad. We ate a lot of noodles and went to bed earlyish.

The evening was very eventful:
* Megan ripped her pad at midnight and we had to spend 30 minutes or so patching
  it on both sides
* It got cold enough that our breath froze on the inside of the tent
* The ice melted away later when it started to rain on us
* My sleeping bag got soaked because I kept getting pressed up against the side
  of the tent.

It was good fun.

# Day 11

Spirits were high and dry as we set out: We found a good bubble of clear, almost
warm weather and followed it all the way to the top of karakol pass. This pass
took us way less time than we expected and were pleasantly surprised when we
dropped down the other side before noon.

<img src="/static/img/kyrgyzstan_2021/day_11_1.jpg"></img>

We figured Kaegti pass would take us a long time as well so we didn't waste much
on the descent, even though it was also amazing. Long, crazy, sweeping views
across the valley and on the snow-dusted mountains nearby. We had a snack at our
turn off and just kept pedaling up.

<img src="/static/img/kyrgyzstan_2021/day_11_2.jpg"></img>

It was definitely the most substantial pass of our trip being at 12,500ft, with mostly hike-a-bike
after the first seven miles. A rockslide had taken out the actual switchbacks
for for a while in the middle we were just pushing our bikes around on loose
rock. We encounted a pair of bikepackers from Belgium/Germany who were doing the
route in the other direction- they said they felt it was more rideable that way.
I can see it.

It was amazing to punch up and through to the other side of the pass: Fog was
belching through and a cold wind through the snow at the top. [This
song](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0nrTzWhVdFM) was
playing at the top and the whole moment felt very impactful.

<img src="/static/img/kyrgyzstan_2021/day_11_3.jpg"></img>

I know I keep saying the descents were amazing- but the one down the other side
of Kageti pass was amazing. We went from being able to see nothing in this super
thick fog, to bursting through into a golden valley with these sharp, rising
walls. It was incredible, if cold.

<img src="/static/img/kyrgyzstan_2021/day_11_4.jpg"></img>

We descended FOREVER, past all sorts of amazing small alpine lakes and rocks and
even a couple of waterfalls. And horses, of course. Always, there are horses. We
camped near a river towards the end of the valley, but ended up hiding in our
tent because of the mosquitoes. We didn't even put the rain cover up. It was
fantastic.

# Day 12

The last day, and not much to report- we descended until it was flat, then we
rode 40 miles of washboard gravel into town along the nasty canals. The nerves
in my hands were on full mutiny and both achilles had long since given up the
ghost, but we made it into town before noon, and we were fully covid tested
almost immediately. We even found a carwash to pressure-wash the bikes. It was
good to just be in town and have everything taken care of.

I picked up a minor stomach bug or something, but we celebrated with a big
dinner and even some wine at Sierra Coffee, where we would end up going a total
of six times. I joked to Megan in the peak of our "Maybe we should bail" rainy
tent time that I'd never actually completed a bikepacking trip as intended: I'd
bailed or switched every single time. Well, heres one to be proud of.
