---
title: Kyrgyzstan 2021
author: Quinlan Pfiffer
tags: outside, adventure, bikepacking
bg-image: /static/img/kyrgyzstan_2021/header.jpg
---

This year, for our two-ish weeks of vacation, Megan wanted very badly to do the
[Nahanni adventure](https://www.mountainproject.com/area/105905652/lotus-flower-tower). Again. And it didn't happen- again. This is the third time
she's been unable to make it work, due to unforseen circumstances or whatever.
This year it was, like last year, COVID stuff. Canada was inaccessible.

So instead, we decided to go to Krygyzstan- this was for a lot of reasons but
the two big ones were [this film](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DhFx17s4a2E) by Kyle Dempster and the [Silk Road Mountain
Race](https://www.silkroadmountainrace.cc/). Being unable to find a reason _not_
to go, and a million reasons we should, we pulled the trigger on some plane
tickets.

We hemmed and hawed for a while about doing the actual race, but decided it
wasn't quite the experience we were looking for, so we opted to do the infamous
[Tian Shan Traverse](https://bikepacking.com/routes/tian-shan-traverse-kyrgyzstan/) instead. We didn't have 20 days to spare so 12 would have
to do. This turned out to be just about our limit for the terrain, which I'll
get into later.

# Training, Logistics and Testing

## Logistics

We had about six weeks to figure everything out and get into shape for the ride.
That means making sure the bikes were good, we had the right gear, creating bike
boxes to transport them across the ocean, etc. We also had to figure out where
we were going to leave all of our stuff- we're nomadic and move locations every
six weeks or so. Stashing our cars and all of our earthly posessions while we were
away was non-trivial. There was a lot to do. Somehow we
postponed most of the major bits until a week or two before. I had parts coming
in the day before we were supposed to leave on the plane.

Luckily Megan is great at talking to people and managed to smooth out all sorts
of logistics issues- A friend of a friend ours offered to stash our stuff, we
hooked up with some Lithuanians via the comments section on bikepacking.com to
handle transpotation to the start of the ride and Megan managed to find
accomodation for us in all of the necessary places (like Dubai on the way back,
super fun 24-hour layerover). I mostly did bike fiddling and mechanical stuff.

## Training

We didn't train especially hard for this, but we probably should I have done
more. I did some hill repeats and tried to focus on strength for the inevitable
hike-a-bike with heavy bikes, and Megan put a lot of time in on the bike.
Something that I felt helped a lot but was kind of unintended was all of the
push-ups, lots of the hike-a-bike was upper body heavy and I felt well-prepared.

## Testing

We didn't do a whole lot of gear testing since our setups our mostly dialed, but
we did change quite a few things. Megan picked up a quilt and a new inflatable
sleeping pad. I got a different
[sleeping pad](https://rockgeist.com/product/animalist-sleeping-pad/). I picked
up different bars and grips. Megan got two new amazing bags from [Alpine
Luddites](https://alpine-luddites.myshopify.com/). In hindsight this was
probably all a lot to change right before a long trip without adequate testing.
Much of my kit was just based on my [Emerald packing
list](https://q.pfiffer.org/posts/2019-05-12-Emerald_Outback_2019.html), but the things
that changed weren't insignificant. 

I decided to use the only bike I have, a [Surly Wednesday](https://surlybikes.com/bikes/wednesday) and Megan went with
her bikepacking rig, a Salsa Woodsmoke (27.5).

<hr>

Below is the previous page from when we were planning.

We've got two weeks off this August and the planning has dwindled down to one
thing: Kyrgyzstan bikepacking. This is my personal planning document.

# THE PLAN

## Bike Setup

* Surly Wednesday
    * 3.8" Tires
    * Full Tubeless

### To Do
    * Straighten out Chainring
    * Get new chain
    * x Redo tires
    * x Check solar panels for charging
    * Find bike box to get bike to K
        * Call local shops?

### To Buy
    * New Chain
    * Spare links (powerlinks or whatever)
    * Moloko/H Bars or something
    * New Bike Shoes
    * x Gas tank bag
    * Replacement debit card?
        * x Find in PDX

## Gear
    * Clothes
        * Helmet
        * Sunglasses
        * Warm gloves
        * 2x Bibs
        * 2x Jerseys
        * Rainjacket
        * Rainpants?
        * Socks
        * Puffy
    * Sleep System
        * Drybag frontroll?
    * Bags
        * Framebag
        * Snack Bag
        * Gas tank bag
        * Seat bag
    * Misc.
        * Zip-ties

## Questions
    * Logistics:
        * How do we transport the bikes?

    * Tent or Bivvy?
        * Tent.

    * Do I want to bring the fatbike?
        * Yes.
