---
title: Murghab/Мургаб River, Tajikistan 2023
author: Quinlan Pfiffer
tags: outside, adventure, packrafting
bg-image: /static/img/tajikistan_2023/header.jpg
---

<iframe src="https://www.gaiagps.com/public/sETPluWkXFdcXqA2xQQhFx2V/?embed=True" style='border:none; overflow-y: hidden; background-color:white; min-width: 320px; max-width:420px; width:100%; height: 420px;' scrolling='no' seamless='seamless'></iframe>

In August of 2023, for our annual vacation-adventure thing we decided to go to
Tajikistan. Initially we'd planned to head to Baffin Island, but trying to get
there from the Faroe Islands was non-trivial and we didn't really know how to
deal with polar bears. We also really liked Kyrgyzstan last time we were there,
so we were very excited to go.

# Plan

We didn't really have any idea what we'd be doing in the country until a few
weeks ahead of time- I'd had a bunch of rivers I wanted to do, we only really
had packrafts and that was about it. Somehow, eventually, we were tipped off to
the [Murghab River](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Murghob). Megan was a little
iffy about paddling anything Class IVish, and this looked relatively doable, so
we decided to try it.

A few russian teams have descended the river ([here is a good trip
report](https://www.ski.ru/az/blogs/post/murgab-bartang-1990/)) but otherwise
it's kind of unknown. A [team of
kayakers](https://pamirs.wordpress.com/2008/10/16/its-all-about-kok-jar/) had
also descended it, which gave us some good english beta. For the most part, we
didn't really know what we'd be in for: Probably lots of terrible lake miles,
some way-too-big-class-V+ that we'd have to portage, high altitudes, and a lot of
beautiful scenery. Perfect.

We eventually settled on a plan to paddle the river, cross Lake Sarez to the
Irkht Valley and hike out to the town of Bachor. What could go wrong?

[Pamir Trips](https://pamirtrips.com/) was instrumental in helping us figure out
a lot of the logistics. Sharaf was very helpful and responsive.

# A New Lake?

<img src="/static/img/tajikistan_2023/the_new_lake.png"></img>

I was doing some route-scoping on SentinelHub and stumbled upon a new lake
recently formed on our route, right where all of the really difficult whitewater
was supposed to be. Apparently an [earthquake](https://www.reuters.com/world/china-reports-magnitude-73-earthquake-near-border-with-tajikistan-2023-02-23/) 
in February 2023 had triggered a landslide along the river, blocking it and
damming it, not unlike Lake Sarez itself. I was able to watch via the sattelite
imaggery as the lake slowly filled, then partially released as it broke through
the top of the rubble.

This added a new complication: Parties before us had some rather exciting and
difficult portages along this section, and we had no idea how the landslide
would look once we got there. Would we be able to get over it? Would the
currents force us to stay far away? Could we come up with a plan B?

We decided to go for it anyway, with a rather awful escape plan to get up and
out of the lake if we couldn't scale the landslide. I was optimistic, Megan less
so. We made a large note of this in our trip plan document as a possible snag.

# Day 0

<img src="/static/img/tajikistan_2023/day_0_1.jpg"></img>

I'll skip a lot of the standard "We lived in a Land Cruiser for a week driving
to Murghab along the Pamir Highway" stuff since this is more of a trip report
and just get right to the day before in Murghob. We, our food, all of our gear
and our optimism made it intact to 12,000 feet in the town of Murghob.

I had some altitude sickness the day before and spent the rest of the afternoon
and evening in bed half asleep, but Megan managed to make some friends with a
WHO crew that was up there and had a more entertaining evening.

I managed to crawl out of bed to chug water and stuff twelve days of food into
my bag, and like any good adventure, it was comically heavy. Very depressing.
Luckily we'd be on water for the first 5-6 days and it wouldn't matter so much.

Somehow in the course of all this, we realized we flew out on December 5th, and
that we'd actually have two less days than we planned to do the whole trip. So
now we were already running late by two days. We decided to just go for it
anyway, front-load some miles on the first day and move quick. We're pretty good
at suffering for long chunks of time.

# Day 1

<img src="/static/img/tajikistan_2023/day_0_0.jpg"></img>

We got up early, ate breakfast and managed to hoof everything out to the river.
The instant coffee and porridge I had were fantastic, and my head didn't hurt so I was feeling
even better. The walk was about a mile, and it was rough with all of the weight
in the bags, but not too bad. Locals eyed us on the way down but nobody followed
us to the river.

<img src="/static/img/tajikistan_2023/day_1_0.jpg"></img>

30 minutes after getting to the river and we were floating away. It was moving
quite quick, around four miles per hour, which was fantastic. We were going to
try and go ~28ish miles that day so that we could check out the Eli Su hot springs near 
Modiyan.

The river moved quickly and so did we- lots of scenic floating, scrubby grass,
people out cutting the grass with scythes, horses, wild cows and sheep, and
eventually scrubby trees once we lost enough elevation. M didn't like the cheese
she bought so I ended up taking it and eating a lot of it. Twenty miles went
down pretty quickly.

We stopped at one point while the sun was out to check out a graveyard, small
little mud buildings slowly dissolving in the harsh climate. No names or
anything, just mounds and pits or small domes. Some locals watched us float away.

As the mountains rose up around us it started to feel more remote, and we pulled
off to camp around 2PM. 29 river miles down in not that much time. I wasn't
super keen on the hot springs and there wasn't a clear, short path to get there
so M went on her own. I had some afternoon coffee and headed up the creek to see
if it would be paddleable. Curious locals walked by and eyed our tent but nobody
said hi.

I bailed after it became impossible to continue without a substantial creek
crossing and had a little adventure on the way back. I fought my way up a super
steep gully, which was very tiring at twelve thousand feet, and then came back
down a road. It had started raining at this time so I was pretty soaked.

Megan didn't get back until around 8:30, and she'd had her own adventure.
Apparently the hot springs are VERY hot and they're basically in someone's home.
She didn't get in more than knee high, and it was more like a sauna. She tried
to fight her way back down the creek, but turned back for the same reason I did,
except she had another five miles back to camp. She put in a whole 13 miles on
foot and walked back in the rain. Brutal.

We ate and went to bed around 9ish.

# Day 2

<img src="/static/img/tajikistan_2023/day_2_0.jpg"></img>

We woke up at six, after it rained all night. This would be a theme: Wind and
rain in the afternoons and evenings. I hadn't drank enough water and had a
headache, cool- I couldn't really eat so I just had some ibuprofen and drank a
bunch of Megan's earl grey tea which was amazing. I felt like a real
mountaineer. The sun was out too, so things were looking up.

We pack and drag the boats up a little ways so we can drop the little creek we
slept next to, it was fun. Then we managed to convince ourselves that the river
was higher, because it was much faster and there was a little class II- at the
start. It was definitely moving quickly, but I figured that we just burned
through all the gradient for the day. It leveled off pretty soon afterward but
kept moving nicely.

<img src="/static/img/tajikistan_2023/day_2_2.jpg"></img>
*One of the side channels.*

We entertained ourslves by taking small side channels and seeing if they'd get
us around a bend faster. Usually they didn't, but they were entertaining.

At one point we came upon a big, new yellow houses on the side of the river. We
tried to talk to someone there but the language barrier was pretty thick. We
couldn't figure out what the house was there for or why it was so big, it's not
even on google maps yet. Very suspicious.

At some point we pass the end of the road that had been paralleling the river
and things suddenly feel much more remote. The mountain walls touch the water,
but eerily there are on rapids. I kept expecting something surprising to show up
and grab us.

At some point we hang out on a gravel bar to eat and skip rocks and look for
interesting specimens. No fossils this time around, though.

We start passing through the landslides-of-old, and the lakes they created, and
it gets much hotter and slower. We pass a good camp spot and decide to keep
going into the newly formed lake. Trees start to be swallowed by the water, and
nothing is moving anymore. It's very surreal being in this steep mountain bowl
with nothing but rock and matcha-colored water all around you. Little did we
know this was just an easy predecessor of things to come.

<img src="/static/img/tajikistan_2023/day_2_1.jpg"></img>

Towards the later afternoon we fight our way up a canyon, dragging boats and
walking through glacial silted brush to get to a shitty campsite. We go back and
forth for quite some time about camping on a high rocky bank covered in
rockfall, or a microscopic, wet gravel bar.

After examining the gravel bar (it was wet and even smaller than we thought) we
decide to go for the extremely sharp rockfall zone. We find the least deadly
spot we can and, after maybe an hour, manage to carve out a small, smooth
depression in the scree. I dubbed it Castle Quinlan. It's not bad but it's not
great, either.

<img src="/static/img/tajikistan_2023/day_2_3.jpg"></img>
*Laying down on the only flat spot on Castle Quinlan*

We eat around 5:30, get everything setup, and the rain/wind rolls in again. This
time I drink a lot of tea before bed, hoping to stave off the headache. I read a
bit of [Living the Best Day Ever](http://livingthebestdayever.com/) which is now
my nightly ritual. It's very good.

Tomorrow is the big day, we have to cross our big, unknown landslide wall.
Hopefully it doesn't have parapets and armed guards. It doesn't take long for us
to fall asleep.

# Day 3

<img src="/static/img/tajikistan_2023/day_3_0.jpg"></img>
*Getting ready to leave day 2 camp*

It was windy and rainy all night but we were pretty comfy, despite pitching the
tent without the bug net insert. We heard rockfall throughout the night but it
was mostly across the canyon, or farther upstream. We survived.

When we got up and out of the tent at six, our only alternative camp site, the
gravel bar, was under water. Good thing we moved all those rocks around instead.
We left camp by 8:30AM and headed off into the lake. Megan was paddling with her
pack balanced on the bow of her boat in case we had to do some steep ascent to
get out of the water and over the landslide.

<img src="/static/img/tajikistan_2023/day_3_1.jpg"></img>
*Bow-baggin'*

After about 90 minutes and what we _thought_ was a lot of wind, we made it to
the dam. We took one break about halfway through at another landslide protruding
into the water to eat and drink before round the final corner to our unknown
obstacle.

The first thing we noticed was that everything was covered in a fine gray dust-
it filled the whole basin. We were also pleasantly surprised to see that our
plan B would probably go if we needed it to, but it was a steep uphill climb
through a rock-filled gully. Not really ideal.

Luckily for us, it was easy to get out and inspect the new slide. It was also
easy to walk around on- it was completely filled in with the same moon-dust
coating the walls. We got up and looked at the water bursting through the other
side, which was as crazy as you can imagine, then went to the boats and packed
everything up for what was, surprisingly, an easy portage.

<img src="/static/img/tajikistan_2023/day_3_2.jpg"></img>
*Me somewhere in the moon field*

It was only about a quarter mile or so, and it wasn't even that bad. We'd both
been expecting way worse. We blew up again at the bottom and boated out on the
first real whitewater we'd seen in the whole trip. The water was coming through
over the dam (colored green) and through it at the bottom (colored bright blue)
and then mixing again into a blue. It was very pretty, and wildly different than
the dirty green from up above the dam.

<img src="/static/img/tajikistan_2023/day_3_3.jpg"></img>
*Packing back up to paddle away from the dam.*

We briefly lost eachother after I stopped to take some photos of Megan paddling
out, but then joined back up for some fast-moving water through flooded brush
fields. A pleasant float after paddling hard on the lake for a while.

<img src="/static/img/tajikistan_2023/day_3_4.jpg"></img>
*Megan paddles out on some busy class II after the portage*

We stopped to investigate some rusty things we saw along the shore and ended up
wandering around the abandoned hydrometeorological station for a while. I don't
have any good photos of this since I only had my GoPro, but Megan got a ton- it
was like everyone just up & left after the collapse of the soviet union.
Everything was bent and twisted and full of silt like it had been flooded. I
talked Megan out of keeping one of the cool little brown bottles we found after
she picked one up that still had mercury in it. I'm pretty sure there was
asbestos around the pipes, too. A cool place, but spooky.

After eating something and putting back on the river, we started noticing weird,
blackened walls that looked like they had slid or something- only after seeing
them repeatedly did we realize they were just the dirty ends of glaciers. It was
really, really cool to paddle right next to them

<img src="/static/img/tajikistan_2023/day_3_5.jpg"></img>
*Looking at a crazy scimitar-shaped iceberg in the middle of the river.*

From there we had some bigger rapids, maybe class III+ and we portaged a bigger
IVish drop that snuck up on us. A big IV around a corner had us stop for the
evening in a big flat-ish bank with some good boulders to hide behind should the
rockfall fairy visit in the night. It had been a very full day.

Camp was almost perfect, but the wind kicked up so the one time we wanted to
have a fire ended up being a hide-in-the-tent night. I spent the evening
drinking coffee, reading and moving rocks around the edge of the tent to try and
hide from the wind.

<img src="/static/img/tajikistan_2023/day_3_6.jpg"></img>

# Day 4

<img src="/static/img/tajikistan_2023/day_4_0.jpg"></img>

The weather was beautiful in the morning, and it was great to watch the sun
creep down the canyon walls. I memorized a line through the big rapid and
decided to run it, and M found an okay put-in just afterward. I aced my line and
we were soon on our way, leaving one of the better camp-spots. It felt good to
work a harder rapid on a remote trip and have it turn out exactly how I expected
it to. It would end up being the hardest rapid on the trip.

From there we had around five miles of read-and-run class III rapids with some
bigger holes, but it tapered off after the big rapid we'd camped at. The scenery
was mostly blue water, dustland, some green grass and scrubby trees.

Another landslide showed up and blocked our view of what sounded like a big
rapid, so we ended up portaging it. This would be the last rapid before the
[lake](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sarez_Lake), and we paused to eat for a while. After snacking for a bit, we ran the run
out and started paddling down the lake.

I was optimistic that we could build a raft out of driftwood and the packrafts
to hopefully gain some speed since there were sticks everywhere, but I'd later
realize that there were only sticks at this end of the lake because thats where
the wind pushed them.

<img src="/static/img/tajikistan_2023/day_4_1.jpg"></img>

We paddled for ages. The wind picked up in the afternoon and it only got way
worse. We stopped once for a potential campspot because the going was so rough,
and M wanted to bail for a highroute but I convinced her to keep going. After
that the wind _really_ picked up and _I_ wanted to bail, but she convinced me to
keep going.

It's hard to overstate how bad the wind and the rain were. They absolutely
whipped us going around corners. I could go a little faster than M so I was
making oh, 1 mile per hour? She was somewhere under that. It was insane. We'd
paddle from wall to wall along the lake, hardly moving at all, then a gust would
hit us and we'd shelter, then we'd hide in a little eddie, then do it all over
again. It was very slow going.

Eventually we spotted land we could potentially get up onto (since the walls are
so steep), but a beach surprised us before we even got there. We arrived on this
fantastic beach around 7:00pm, and _immediately_ upon landing the wind stopped
and the lake was glassy. The clouds cleared. We could see all the 6000 meter
peaks around us, with fresh snow on top. It was savage, and we were absolutely
tired.

We ate and went to bed. We slept well until the tent partially collapsed and I
had to walk around in the dark looking for rocks to prop everything back up.

# Day 5

<img src="/static/img/tajikistan_2023/day_5_0.jpg"></img>
*Morning on our little miracle beach. Notice fresh snow in the mountain tops.*

Perhaps traumatised by our awful, million-hour paddle from the day before, Megan
suggested we wake up at 4AM. While we were awake earlier, we were also a little
slower in leaving camp and didn't head out until around 7AM.

<img src="/static/img/tajikistan_2023/day_5_1.jpg"></img>

We paddled all day. It wasn't bad at first, just a big treadmill with a minor
headwind and clear skies, but it got bad later. Megan's boat paddles like a
sheet of plywood, so it was much more tiring to move. We passed the time with 20
questions, I spy, and other little games. I even came up with a little song
I've already forgotten.

<img src="/static/img/tajikistan_2023/day_5_2.jpg"></img>

We paddled and stopped a few times for snacks or Peanut Butter Tortillas. There
weren't any great places to stop, just shallow little sand pits on the side of
screen slopes. We tried not to linger as rocks and dirt slid down around us.

I was frustrated, Megan was in pain, and times were rough, but we made it
through eventually. We found a weird little nook and managed to scramble up to a
plateau, where we ate in the sun and decided to call it for the day
despite not having gone super far. We kept double-guessing the decision when the
lake would go flat, but decided there was no other place to camp in the near
future. 7AM to 2PM isn't too bad, right?

<img src="/static/img/tajikistan_2023/day_5_3.jpg"></img>
*Megan lounging on the perfect boulder*

It turned out to be a good spot, and we spent the evening wandering around
looking at small rocks. Megan found a really cool little crystal, and we decided
to pitch the tent on the ridge despite the wind picking up later. It was an
absolute pain to haul everything up there, but we were thankful for the flat
ground. I somehow managed to spill my dinner onto the ground, but it was still
dry so I managed to get every single dehydrated noodle back into the bag.

We were in bed by 6:15PM.
