---
title: 2023 In Review
author: Quinlan Pfiffer
bg-image: /static/img/bg-gradient.png
bg-img-src: https://google.com/
tags: year-end-review
---

Notables
========

### General

It's been a strange year- I was sick for six weeks in the beginning and lost a
lot of weight. It was not a Good Time. I've been off and on sick for the rest of
the year- not ideal. In between that though there were some pretty good moments.
The traveling continues:

* Lived in San Carlos de Bariloche for the first few months of the Year
* Lived in my car until July, paddling a bunch of whitewater
* Lived in the Faroe Islands
* Did a [pretty rad trip](/posts/2023-09-05-Tajikistan_2023.html) in Tajikistan
* Lived in a comically small AirBnB in Snoqualmie pass for about a month
* Lived in Mexico until the New Year, survived all the bad shit that happened there
    * San Agustin Etla
    * Jalcomulco!

* M and I have been married for a year now, so that worked.
* My spanish is much better now. Still transactionational.

### Bikes

* Finally got one- a Singlespeed new-gen Krampus. It's nice to have a bike again
  waiting for me.

### Running

No big runs or anything this year other than a small vert race in September in
Snoqualmie Pass. Lots of consistency though. Or trying to have lots of consistency.

* The shin splints will continue until morale improves- I've been battling this
  since my stress fracture in 2022. Giving my shins some good time off
  currently.
* Discovered running in sandals really works for me
* Got back some fitness in Mexico, I ran a lot for me- the daily mile is a
  really nice way to keep some consistency.

### Adventure

* [Tajikistan packrafting!](/posts/2023-09-05-Tajikistan_2023.html)
* Megan got me into the [daily cold dip](https://www.instagram.com/reel/Cveh_ibM_9f/) in the Faroes

### Skiing

* None at all! But we're in Japan now and skiing every day.

### Climbing

* Climbed at El Potrero Chico

### Packrafting/Kayaking

62 recorded days in the boat, with probably 5-6 more unrecorded. I'm pretty
happy with that number considering how mobile we were.

* St Joe Drainage
    * My new favorite drainage- Slate Creek was a gem.
* Lochsa Revenge (No swims!)
* Little Salmon revenge (Didn't walk off!)
* 3-bears on the metolious
* Niagara on the Santiam
* Hiked into [Canyon Creek (CA)](https://www.instagram.com/p/CtXSAAFyRL4/)
* Paddled [Canyon Creek (WA)](https://www.instagram.com/reel/CsfaSsDAMzA/)
* Paddled The E. Fork of the Lewis for the first time and didn't swim
* Still can't reliably roll my packraft
* John Day multiday with Jake

### Strength/Fitness

Mostly had to build back up from ground zero on this one, so no real
break-throughs.

### Books

Too many audiobooks to count, which I don't, and only a handful of paper books.
I decided not to write them down this last year, which I don't really like.

_Living the Best Day Ever_ is my favorite book of all time. I return to it often.

### Code

I [rewrote the backend](https://github.com/qpfiffer/shithouse.tv/pull/36) for
shithouse.tv which adds a cool, weird, custom Python <-> Lua binding. I like it.
It was quite a lot of work, actually. Otherwise it was pretty Monday to Friday.
[ReverseGPX](https://reversegpx.com/) continues to tick along with a few users.

Regrets
=======

Goals from Last Year
====================

n/a

Goals for 2024
==============

* Books
    * Infinite Jest
    * 2066
    * Mao II
    * Born to Run
* Videography
    * Shoot video every day
    * Make some fun edits from Japan
* Self
    * New Tattoo
    * Guitar Daily
    * Weekly meditation
    * Eat better - More veggies!
    * Get resting heartrate under 50
    * Wake up and go to bed consistently. Do the work.
    * 20 consecutive pull-ups
    * Cold Dips
* Boating
    * The Chetco/Tin Cup Creek/Illinois Triple
    * Any one of those rivers ^^^
    * Paddle in Ecuador, Kyrgyzstan or Zambia
    * Live in Kernville
* Running
    * Fastpack something, preferably the Kalmiopsis
    * Have a good 50k
    * Have a good 50-miler
    * Fix shin splints
* Skiing
    * Land a 180
    * Learn to ride switch
    * Don't get injured
    * Do some cool spring touring
    * Ski Yotei
    * Visit a ghost resort
* Relationships
    * Monthly/Weekly check-ins with M
    * Interact and support Mom/Dad/Cameron
    * Hang out with close friends more often
* Writing
    * Write about Japan life
    * Write about the GoPros I've been using

Injuries
========

Besides being sick all the time and my chronic shin splints, I'm doing pretty
well. Feeling pretty strong and fit.
