---
title: 2024 In Review
author: Quinlan Pfiffer
bg-image: /static/img/bg-gradient.png
bg-img-src: https://google.com/
tags: year-end-review
---

Notables
========

### General

It's been a strange year- I was sick for six weeks in the beginning and lost a
lot of weight. It was not a Good Time. I've been off and on sick for the rest of
the year- not ideal. In between that though there were some pretty good moments.
The traveling continues:

* Lived in San Carlos de Bariloche for the first few months of the Year
* Lived in my car until July, paddling a bunch of whitewater
* Lived in the Faroe Islands
* Did a [pretty rad trip](/posts/2023-09-05-Tajikistan_2023.html) in Tajikistan
* Lived in a comically small AirBnB in Snoqualmie pass for about a month
* Lived in Mexico until the New Year, survived all the bad shit that happened there
    * San Agustin Etla
    * Jalcomulco!

* M and I have been married for a year now, so that worked.
* My spanish is much better now. Still transactionational.

### Bikes

Last year's Krampus is now a 12-speed do-anything bike- we 

### Running

### Adventure

### Skiing

### Climbing

### Packrafting/Kayaking

### Strength/Fitness

### Books

Lots of audiobooks because I was in the car so much- Richard K. Morgan featured
heavily. I really liked his fantasy series, and _Thin Air_ is a fave I've
listened to several times.

I didn't finish the books I wanted to in the beginning (2666, Infinite Jest) but
I'm almost done with the former. _Mao II_ was alright. I liked White Noise quite
a lot. _Although of Course You End Up Becoming Yourself_ was a good listen but
kind of depressing. _Gun, with Occasional Music_ was hilarious and I think of
the following line often:

> Good-looking for 50 or bad for 35.

_Fourth Wing_ and _A Court of Thorns and Roses_ both bounced off me.

_Between Two Fires_ was surprisingly good- like Catholic fan-fiction.

I've been picking at Henry Miller again, and wish I hadn't given away my copy of
_Black Spring_, even though I hate it. We have a bookshelf now, and it's
exciting to see all of our books out in the open.

All the usuals were there too: Starfish, some Void Star, Piranesi, Harrow/Gideon/Nona the
Ninth.

### Code

Regrets
=======

* Books
* Videography
    * Make more short films- [Rollerboating](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9JJtJ_tE4L4) was fun to
      shoot and put together.
* Running/Skiing
    * 500k vertical feet of gain

Goals from Last Year
====================

* Books
    * - Infinite Jest
    * + 2066
    * + Mao II
    * - Born to Run
* Videography
    * Shoot video every day
    * Make some fun edits from Japan
* Self
    * - New Tattoo
    * + Guitar Daily
    * - Weekly meditation
    * + Eat better - More veggies!
    * - Get resting heartrate under 50
    * (sorta) Wake up and go to bed consistently. Do the work.
    * + 20 consecutive pull-ups
    * (sorta) Cold Dips
* Boating
    * (sorta) The Chetco/Tin Cup Creek/Illinois Triple
    * + Any one of those rivers ^^^
    * - Paddle in Ecuador, Kyrgyzstan or Zambia
    * - Live in Kernville
* Running
    * - Fastpack something, preferably the Kalmiopsis
    * + Have a good 50k
    * + Have a good 50-miler
    * - Fix shin splints
* Skiing
    * + Land a 180
    * + Learn to ride switch
    * (sorta) Don't get injured
    * + Do some cool spring touring
    * + Ski Yotei
    * + Visit a ghost resort
* Relationships
    * - Monthly/Weekly check-ins with M
    * + Interact and support Mom/Dad/Cameron
    * + Hang out with close friends more often
* Writing
    * - Write about Japan life
    * - Write about the GoPros I've been using

Goals for 2024
==============

Injuries
========

Well the stress-fracture has sucked, but it's really highlighted other things
and let me focus on other activities. I'm still excited to come back for 2025
and start running again. We have a hill in town, Mt. Sentinel, that is 1900 feet
up in 1.6 miles and I love it. This will be a very-heavy year.
