---
title: 2025 In Review
author: Quinlan Pfiffer
bg-image: /static/img/2025.jpg
bg-img-src: https://google.com/
tags: year-end-review
---

Notables
========

### General

Solid year for running, maybe my best ever: All of the lingering injuries (aside
from some weird brain damage from heat?) have healed up. I was able to do just
over 500k feet of gain and something like 1200 miles on foot. There was a lot of
skiing and paddling too.

[Rollerboating](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9JJtJ_tE4L4) made it into the International Packrafting Film Festival. That was
fun.

I made a backpack at Alpine Luddites- it's very high quality and I've already
used it a few times for Ski Touring.

The DJI Air 2S that we pulled out of the river was fully repaired- so i have a
drone now to do nothing with.

We bought a house and are happily ensconced in Missoula proper, finally out of
the dark, busy house on 14th. I have a bookshelf, a garage, and my own room to
leave as chaotic as I want.

The start of the year was packed with Rando Radness (a local skimo race), lots
of backcountry ski weekends and hut trips.

The crowning achievment was probably my [Tin Cup Creek
FD](posts/2025-04-08-Tin_Cup_Creek.html) with Cruser- I was
pretty satisifed with that for a long while. I had a great lead-in to that trip
living in the car and bouncing around Oregon and Northern California beforehand,
too.

AG gave me a raise at the end of the year, and we grew by a lot. I'm very happy
there and am super proud of the engineering team. I love everyone there.

M and I's relationship is in a really good place: I had some weird overtraining
stuff show up in November and stopped exercising more or less entirely for
something like 6 weeks. My mood and general affability drastically improved and
I have a lot more space for her, too. She's just getting over hip surgery (and
crushing it, very quickly) and is excited for a year of racing in far-off
places. We have plans to go to both Corsica and Switzerland towards the end of
next year to race together.

### Bikes

### Running

RUFA Mt. Sentinel was fantastic: Megan and I both competed in the twelve hour.
It was to be one of two only races I did, the other being The RUT. I was happy
with my performance at RUFA coming off the stress fracture (31 miles, 16,000 ft.
of gain in twelve hours) and I really nailed The Rut: Just under eight hours.
That race is HARD.

Otherwise I had a great time exploring the bitterroot and figuring out how to
actually train easy. I even got my resting heart rate down to something like 48,
wich has been a goal for many years.

### Adventure

* [Cowboy Ridge](https://www.strava.com/activities/15484510334) was incredible
  and I wish I had done more scrambling like this. It was an amazing day
  scrambling along a knife-edge ridgeline.
* A cool loop through the Pintlers with Megan (I fastpacked and she backpacked
  with a friend, they did more days than I.) The Rumple is not a good blanket to
  use for backpacking.
* A route with Andrew and Bryce near the Idaho/MT stateline trail we just called
  "[Bloodroot Ridge](https://www.strava.com/activities/15335551152)"
* A cool [long run](https://www.strava.com/activities/15723342508) through the
  Crazies coupled with a fun hut stay.
* I did a solo overnighter up to [Sky Pilot](https://www.strava.com/activities/16193920426) just 
  before it really got wintry- that was very fun.

### Skiing

I got a lot of laps in at Snowbowl and Marshall, and even managed to ski
Sentinel. Andrew, probably my best friend in Montana, moved up to Kalispell and
cut our adventure time way down, but we did a lot together before he headed out.
Otherwise I was part of a crusher crew of Laurel, Kyle, Nick, Alex, Mike and Megan,
and we got out together quite often.

### Climbing

I don't think I did any- there was some scrambling present, though.

### Packrafting/Kayaking

Quite a few new rivers this year with Andrew, and with others. A list:

* Prospect Creek
* Nyak Creek
* Siyeh-Reynolds into St Marys: A real banger.
* Kootenai Creek (Wild!)
* Tin Cup Creek
* Illinois River
* Cal-Salmon South (Butler)
* Cal-Salmon North (Idyllwild)
* Clear Creek (trib of the klamath)
* Applegate Creek
* Sullivan Creek (Wild time, very manky, lots of wood, a friend slipped and
  bashed himself + his boat up pretty good during a portage)
* A new section of the Lochsa for a Dirty 30 day- huge.

And then some other oldies:

* Bull Run
* The Box on the Sacramento
* The lower Chetco
* North Fork Blackfoot (early in Spring and again on the Winter Solstice in the
  snow)
* Clark Fork (Alberton Gorge)
* Tons and tons of days at Brennan's Wave on the Clark Fork.
* The Method River
* The Lochsa
* The Rattlesnake
* All the payette classics: Swirly canyon, Lower V, South Canyon, Staircase,
  Deadwood. It was fun to paddle with Landon at the round-up, and everybody
  else.

Andrew and I hiked boats into Bear Creek but didn't paddle anything, so I don't
know where that fits in.

New Boats: A Dragorosi DRX, which is amazing, and a XXX, which has upped my
paddling skill immensely. Bow stalls are SO MUCH FUN. Hand paddling is WILD. I
sold my Ripper 2 to Andrew and still have the Firecracker.

### Strength/Fitness

### Books

Lots of audiobooks because I was in the car so much- Richard K. Morgan featured
heavily. I really liked his fantasy series, and _Thin Air_ is a fave I've
listened to several times.

I didn't finish the books I wanted to in the beginning (2666, Infinite Jest) but
I'm almost done with the former. _Mao II_ was alright. I liked White Noise quite
a lot. _Although of Course You End Up Becoming Yourself_ was a good listen but
kind of depressing. _Gun, with Occasional Music_ was hilarious and I think of
the following line often:

> Good-looking for 50 or bad for 35.

_Fourth Wing_ and _A Court of Thorns and Roses_ both bounced off me.

_Between Two Fires_ was surprisingly good- like Catholic fan-fiction.

I've been picking at Henry Miller again, and wish I hadn't given away my copy of
_Black Spring_, even though I hate it. We have a bookshelf now, and it's
exciting to see all of our books out in the open.

All the usuals were there too: Starfish, some Void Star, Piranesi, Harrow/Gideon/Nona the
Ninth.

### Code

Regrets
=======

Goals from Last Year
====================

* Self
    * Stay healthy
    * New tattoo
    * Stop renting
* General
    * Leave M more notes
* Books
    * Finish 2666
    * Read three other difficult books (No rereads!)
* Videography
    * Make more short films- [Rollerboating](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9JJtJ_tE4L4) was fun to
      shoot and put together.
* Paddling
    * Tin Cup
    * Illinois
    * South Fork Flathead
    * Futaleufu/Zambezi
    * Get back into Central Asia
    * Do some skirafting
* Running/Skiing
    * 500k vertical feet of gain
    * The RUT
    * Go for an FKT with M
    * Do more ridge runs
    * Do more scrambling
* Writing
    * More Trip Reports, Blog Posts, Journal entries


Goals for 2025
==============

Injuries
========
